---
title: "AI Usage"
description: ""
excerpt: ""
date: 2020-11-04T09:19:42+01:00
lastmod: 
draft: false
weight: 50
images: []
categories: ["articles"]
tags: ["standards"]
contributors: ["CITools"]
pinned: false
homepage: false
---



Notes for a disclaimer on the usage of AI tools in editorial contexts.

All content on _______ is written by humans who have been identified as having advanced expertise in their field. Absolutley no content has been generated by AI tools. We do sometimes, however, use AI tools in the editing process.

Examples of promts used for copy editing inlcude:

"Copy edit the following in the style of CMOS without changing any words:"

Ocassionally, we receive drafts from techincal experts that are rich in insight but far from our editorial standards in writing quality. In such cases, as part of the editing process, we may use prompts such as:

"Rewrite this in the style of...:"


Preamble

Artificial intelligence performs better than humans at many tasks. But fundamental flaws can be built into the logic of such programs, reflecting human biases and flawed understandings of important topics. A good article on why this is the case is The New Science of Alt Intelligence by Gary Marcus.

Editorial publications that focus on advancing human thinking and behavior and related policies and technological applications, such as ai, still need to be informed by unbiased reasoning--not models based on consensus opinions and popular dialogues.

Building trust and credibility into modern information enviroments requires tranparency and full disclosure on usage of AI tools in the production of editorial content. 